# Release Notes 1.6.3

# Integrated Presenter

## Changes
- auto transition guard mode
- tied-next-slide transition 
- reset presentation to beginning
- default multiviewer config -noticible hide vu meters
- support for 'nodrive' slides
- add extra commands to PIP location window


## auto transition guard mode
This features is enabled by default. It attempts to prevent the scenario where the switcher freezes halfway between transitions when doing a dissolve. The feature will attempt to only allow auto transitions when one is not already in progress (since BMD's ATEM switcher interpret a second auto transition request as a stop current transition at frame if one is already in progress).

This should fix the issue where manually pressing 'auto' right before/after next slide while in drive mode would get the switcher into the frozen transition state. This will also prevent keyboards on a hair-trigger by effectively debouncing the requests.

This also means that there is no way to get out of a frozen state. You will have to disable the auto transition guard mode, then manually start/stop the transition and then re-enable the feature.

Feature is under: Menu>Automation>Enable Drive Mode Auto Transition Guard

## tied-next-slide transitions

This feature solves the problem of wanting an auto transition to start at the same time as the next slide (in drive mode). Now you can! NOTE: this attempts to be intelligent and if the next slide does not use a camera source (ie. Full, Video, Action) then this will simply be the same as next slide.
The intent is to use this with Liturgy type slides.

The un-documented shortcut for this (only accessible with keyboard) is:
Left-CTRL + right Arrow

## extra PIP location commands

Sometimes it would be nice to command the switcher from within the PIP location window.
For your convenience they've been mapped to the same keys as in the main control panel.

Available commands:

- Preset Source (keyboard commands: Number 1-8)
- PIP FIll Source (keyboard commands: Left-CTRL+Number 1-8)
- PIP ON/OFF (keyboard command: Numpad 4)
- Auto Transition (keyboard command: Enter)

## 'nodrive' slides
These slides will never run automation. Even in drive mode, if the next slide is nodrive, then the next slide command will not perform any automation, and instead act as if you requested the next slide in undriven mode.

# Slide Creater

## Changes
- show slide number and total slides in status bar
- loop video previews of project assets
- add rendered slide previews for action and resource slides
- add view mode to toggle between slide and key previews
- add project autosave and recovery
- add prefabs for common actions
- add overlay option for text hymn
- add filterimage slides and corresponding image filters

The current documentation for slides is nearly up-to date. The only missing elements are:

#texthymn

- optional parameter after asset name. Mark 'True' for overlay

e.g. #texthymn("Title", "name", "tune", "number", "copyright")(true) {
    // verses here
}

#filterimage{
    // filterchain here
}

The filterchains are currently undocumented...
For now you'll have to read the source code to use them, though they do generate more than average compiler messages

TODO: update documentation for this. Probably will happen once there's a more complete selection of filters.
Though the current complement is at least as powerfull as the existing image commands.

ie the autofitimage (for hymns) can be done with the appropriate filterchains:
- centerfillasset
- crop top
- crop bottom
- crop left
- crop right
- resize
- solidcolorborder

You can even perform a more involved color correction via the new: editcolor filter.
The editcolor filter will provide full control for the old [(cc-bw-###)] color correction command (NOTE: this will probably be deprecated at some point, but for now still works)

NOTE: The GDI+ API that all the image processing uses will make any of the crop and editcolor filters be slow. They perform Pixel based operations, and the API is inefficient for this task, thus many individual memory operations are used. Expect a noticeable (1~5 sec) rendering time for a slide that uses these.
