# Release Notes 1.7.1.11+

# Slide Creater

## 1. Overhaul Saving

## New save format: *trusty.zip* 
It appears the main issue with saves not always saving all assets resulted from trying to compress and add files in parallel to the zip archive. The new *trusty save* will save all project assets sequentially. Contrary to expectations this does not appear to have impacted save times- if anything they've improved (once again premature optimization is the root of all evil).

Additionally the new *trusty save* format better handles asset names. To prevent conflicts assets are renamed upon saving, to have names following the convention: 'asset_<#>'. The save format also includes various files that map how the asset is referenced in the project, to its associated file in the save. The new format also provides the ability to rename assets.

Slide Creater will save any project using the new *trusty.zip* format.

For backwards compatibility, Slide Creater retains the capability to open a *legacy* project with the old *.zip* format. Provided Slide Creater can open the old project, you will be able to save it as a *trusty save*.

## Auto Saves
**Auto saving** has also been revisited. The original use for auto saves was to counter the possibility Slide Creater crashed while doing a 'real' save. Since saving now works, auto saving has been re-implemented to something more useful.

Auto saves now use the *trusty.zip* format including all project assets, rather than the old lightweight format (which may not have had enough information to recover all the project assets).
If you attempt to recover an older format '.json' autosave, Slide Creater will try its best to recover that like it always did.

Slide Creater will by default 'Aggressively' Auto Save. Prior to 'risky' operations (rendering, exporting) a full *trusty* auto save will be performed.

## 2. GUI Experience Improvements

## Textbox
It's finally here! A fully feature IDE textbox designed to handle source code. Thanks to AvalonEdit, Slide Creater now has a editor that is able to do proper syntax highlighting and offer suggestions, while retaining performance.

- Implemented initial syntax highlighting
	- TODO: perhaps highlight referenced asset names on commands
- First attempt at contextual autocomplete suggestions
	- DONE: list all available commands
	- DONE: contextual suggestions when inside a *#set* or *#anthemtitle* command
	- TODO: contextual suggestions for other commands- including scripts
	
	- WIP: performance of autocomplete may be slower than ideal
	- WIP: detection of when to show suggestions and when to select a suggestion | (Ctrl + Space) will forcibly generate and show suggestions 

## Rename Assets
Assets can be renamed. Use the pencil icon to change an asset's name. **NOTE after changing its name, make sure to update any usages of it in your project.

## Eye Candy

Enjoy the new icons!

## 3. Render/Export Feature

While the ground work was laid by having key files generated for each slide, they will can now be rendered 'properly'

Rather than using the clip/gain settings to key transparency correctly based on Slide Creater's output, Slide Creater can now render slides with the alpha channel *premultipled*.

To enable this feature set the following project variable at the start of the project

	#set("global.rendermode.alpha", "premultiplied")

This will perform the necessary calculations and use the generated greyscale key file and re-calculate the rgb values for each pixel on the display file, as well as set the alpha channel accordingly. This will generate true *premultiplied* display files.

The default ATEM switcher configuration that's applied by Integrated Presenter, uses clip/gain rather than premultiplied for liturgy. While the clip/gain that are set will work reasonably well even with premultiplied slides it's best to configure the switcher correctly.

Slide Creater will automatically generate a BMDSwitcherConfig.json file with the correct settings for premultiplied slides, if it exports premultiplied slides. This file will be part of the presentation.

When opening a presentation, Integrated Presenter will check if a config file exists, and if so will re-configure the switcher appropriately.

# Integrated Presenter

- If BMDSwitcherConfig.json file present in presentation, will re-configure switcher as requested
- Update slide output displays with black background to work with premultiplied slides
- Update slide previews with checkerboard to better preview alpha transparency on slides

## Advanced PIP Location Control Improvements

- added fine control mode (changes values by 0.01 instead of 0.1)
- added ability to keys: [LShift + 1-8] preset next PIP fill source
- added ability to 'slew' the mask keys: [ijkl]
- added mode to readjust pip position to account for mask slew
- added shortcut key: [h] to center pip mask slew
- added shortcut key: [g] to clear pip mask